README.md, before:

# Minimalistic Gridworld Environment (MiniGrid)

There are other gridworld Gym environments out there, but this one is
designed to be particularly simple, lightweight and fast. The code has very few
dependencies, making it less likely to break or fail to install. It loads no
external sprites/textures, and it can run at up to 6000 FPS on a quad-core i7
laptop, which means you can run your experiments faster. Batteries are
included: a known-working RL implementation is supplied in this repository
to help you get started.

Requirements:
- Python 3
- OpenAI Gym
- NumPy
- PyQT 5 for graphics

This environment has been built at the [MILA](https://mila.quebec/en/) as
part of the [Baby AI Game](https://github.com/maximecb/baby-ai-game) project.

## Installation

Clone this repository and install the other dependencies with `pip3`:

```
git clone https://github.com/maximecb/gym-minigrid.git
cd gym-minigrid
pip3 install -e .
```

Optionally, if you wish use the reinforcement learning code included
under [/pytorch_rl](/pytorch_rl), you should install PyTorch as follows:

```
# PyTorch
conda install pytorch torchvision -c pytorch
```

Note: the pytorch_rl code is a custom fork of [this repository](https://github.com/ikostrikov/pytorch-a2c-ppo-acktr),
which was modified to work with this environment.

## Basic Usage

To run the standalone UI application, which allows you to manually control the agent with the arrow keys:

```
./standalone.py
```

The environment being run can be selected with the `--env-name` option, eg:

```
./standalone.py --env-name MiniGrid-Empty-8x8-v0
```

Basic reinforcement learning code is provided in the `pytorch_rl` subdirectory.
You can perform training using the A2C algorithm with:

```
python3 pytorch_rl/main.py --env-name MiniGrid-Empty-6x6-v0 --no-vis --num-processes 48 --algo a2c
```

You can view the result of training using the `enjoy.py` script:

```
python3 pytorch_rl/enjoy.py --env-name MiniGrid-Empty-6x6-v0 --load-dir ./trained_models/a2c
```

## Design

MiniGrid is built to support tasks involving natural language and sparse rewards.
The observations are dictionaries, with an 'image' field, partially observable
view of the environment, and a 'mission' field which is a textual string
describing the objective the agent should reach to get a reward. Using
dictionaries makes it easy for you to add additional information to observations
if you need to, without having to force everything into a single tensor.
If your RL code expects a tensor for observations, please take a look at
`FlatObsWrapper` in
[gym_minigrid/wrappers.py](/gym_minigrid/wrappers.py).

The partially observable view of the environment uses a compact and efficient
encoding, with just 3 input values per visible grid cell, 147 values total.
If you want to obtain an array of RGB pixels instead, see the `getObsRender` method in
[gym_minigrid/minigrid.py](gym_minigrid/minigrid.py).

Structure of the world:
- The world is an NxM grid of tiles
- Each tile in the grid world contains zero or one object
  - Cells that do not contain an object have the value `None`
- Each object has an associated discrete color (string)
- Each object has an associated type (string)
  - Provided object types are: wall, door, locked_doors, key, ball, box and goal
- The agent can pick up and carry exactly one object (eg: ball or key)

Actions in the basic environment:
- Turn left
- Turn right
- Move forward
- Toggle (pick up or interact with objects)
- Wait (noop, do nothing)

By default, sparse rewards for reaching a goal square are provided, but you can
define your own reward function by creating a class derived from MiniGridEnv. Extending
the environment with new object types or action should be very easy very easy.
If you wish to do this, you should take a look at the
[gym_minigrid/minigrid.py](gym_minigrid/minigrid.py) source file.

## Included Environments

The environments listed below are implemented in the [gym_minigrid/envs](/gym_minigrid/envs) directory.
Each environment provides one or more configurations registered with OpenAI gym. Each environment
is also programmatically tunable in terms of size/complexity, which is useful for curriculum learning
or to fine-tune difficulty.

### Empty environment

Registered configurations:
- `MiniGrid-Empty-6x6-v0`
- `MiniGrid-Empty-8x8-v0`
- `MiniGrid-Empty-16x16-v0`

<p align="center">
<img src="/figures/empty-env.png" width=250>
</p>

This environment is an empty room, and the goal of the agent is to reach the
green goal square, which provides a sparse reward. A small penalty is
subtracted for the number of steps to reach the goal. This environment is
useful, with small rooms, to validate that your RL algorithm works correctly,
and with large rooms to experiment with sparse rewards.

### Door & key environment

Registered configurations:
- `MiniGrid-DoorKey-5x5-v0`
- `MiniGrid-DoorKey-6x6-v0`
- `MiniGrid-DoorKey-8x8-v0`
- `MiniGrid-DoorKey-16x16-v0`

<p align="center">
<img src="/figures/door-key-env.png">
</p>

This environment has a key that the agent must pick up in order to unlock
a goal and then get to the green goal square. This environment is difficult,
because of the sparse reward, to solve using classical RL algorithms. It is
useful to experiment with curiosity or curriculum learning.

### Multi-room environment

Registered configurations:
- `MiniGrid-MultiRoom-N2-S4-v0` (two small rooms)
- `MiniGrid-MultiRoom-N6-v0` (six room)

<p align="center">
<img src="/figures/multi-room.gif" width=416 height=424>
</p>

This environment has a series of connected rooms with doors that must be
opened in order to get to the next room. The final room has the green goal
square the agent must get to. This environment is extremely difficult to
solve using classical RL. However, by gradually increasing the number of
rooms and building a curriculum, the environment can be solved.

### Fetch environment

Registered configurations:
- `MiniGrid-Fetch-5x5-N2-v0`
- `MiniGrid-Fetch-6x6-N2-v0`
- `MiniGrid-Fetch-8x8-N3-v0`

<p align="center">
<img src="/figures/fetch-env.png" width=450>
</p>

This environment has multiple objects of assorted types and colors. The
agent receives a textual string as part of its observation telling it
which object to pick up. Picking up the wrong object produces a negative
reward.

### Go-to-door environment

Registered configurations:
- `MiniGrid-GoToDoor-5x5-v0`
- `MiniGrid-GoToDoor-6x6-v0`
- `MiniGrid-GoToDoor-8x8-v0`

<p align="center">
<img src="/figures/gotodoor-6x6.png" width=400>
</p>

This environment is a room with four doors, one on each wall. The agent
receives a textual (mission) string as input, telling it which door to go to,
(eg: "go to the red door"). It receives a positive reward for performing the
`wait` action next to the correct door, as indicated in the mission string.

### Put-near environment

Registered configurations:
- `MiniGrid-PutNear-6x6-N2-v0`
- `MiniGrid-PutNear-8x8-N3-v0`

The agent is instructed through a textual string to pick up an object and
place it next to another object. This environment is easy to solve with two
objects, but difficult to solve with more, as it involves both textual
understanding and spatial reasoning involving multiple objects.

### Locked Room Environment

Registed configurations:
- `MiniGrid-LockedRoom-v0`

The environment has six rooms, one of which is locked. The agent receives
a textual mission string as input, telling it which room to go to in order
to get the key that opens the locked room. It then has to go into the locked
room in order to reach the final goal. This environment is extremely difficult
to solve with vanilla reinforcement learning alone.

### Four room question answering environment

Registered configurations:
- `MiniGrid-FourRoomQA-v0`

<p align="center">
<img src="/figures/fourroomqa-env.png">
</p>

This environment is inspired by the
[Embodied Question Answering](https://arxiv.org/abs/1711.11543) paper. The question are of the form:

> Are there any keys in the red room?

There are four colored rooms, and the agent starts at a random position in the grid.
Multiple objects of different types and colors are also placed at random
positions in random rooms. A question and answer pair is generated, the
question is given to the agent as an observation, and the agent has a limited
number of time steps to explore the environment and produce a response. This
environment can be easily modified to add more question types or to diversify
the way the questions are phrased.

Commit message:

new branch implementing the teacher

README.md, after:

# Minimalistic Gridworld Environment (MiniGrid)
This branch is a more flexible version of MiniGrid, it allows to create envs passing parameters



# Minimalistic Gridworld Environment (MiniGrid)

There are other gridworld Gym environments out there, but this one is
designed to be particularly simple, lightweight and fast. The code has very few
dependencies, making it less likely to break or fail to install. It loads no
external sprites/textures, and it can run at up to 6000 FPS on a quad-core i7
laptop, which means you can run your experiments faster. Batteries are
included: a known-working RL implementation is supplied in this repository
to help you get started.

Requirements:
- Python 3
- OpenAI Gym
- NumPy
- PyQT 5 for graphics

This environment has been built at the [MILA](https://mila.quebec/en/) as
part of the [Baby AI Game](https://github.com/maximecb/baby-ai-game) project.

## Installation

Clone this repository and install the other dependencies with `pip3`:

```
git clone https://github.com/maximecb/gym-minigrid.git
cd gym-minigrid
pip3 install -e .
```

Optionally, if you wish use the reinforcement learning code included
under [/pytorch_rl](/pytorch_rl), you should install PyTorch as follows:

```
# PyTorch
conda install pytorch torchvision -c pytorch
```

Note: the pytorch_rl code is a custom fork of [this repository](https://github.com/ikostrikov/pytorch-a2c-ppo-acktr),
which was modified to work with this environment.

## Basic Usage

To run the standalone UI application, which allows you to manually control the agent with the arrow keys:

```
./standalone.py
```

The environment being run can be selected with the `--env-name` option, eg:

```
./standalone.py --env-name MiniGrid-Empty-8x8-v0
```

Basic reinforcement learning code is provided in the `pytorch_rl` subdirectory.
You can perform training using the A2C algorithm with:

```
python3 pytorch_rl/main.py --env-name MiniGrid-Empty-6x6-v0 --no-vis --num-processes 48 --algo a2c
```

You can view the result of training using the `enjoy.py` script:

```
python3 pytorch_rl/enjoy.py --env-name MiniGrid-Empty-6x6-v0 --load-dir ./trained_models/a2c
```

## Design

MiniGrid is built to support tasks involving natural language and sparse rewards.
The observations are dictionaries, with an 'image' field, partially observable
view of the environment, and a 'mission' field which is a textual string
describing the objective the agent should reach to get a reward. Using
dictionaries makes it easy for you to add additional information to observations
if you need to, without having to force everything into a single tensor.
If your RL code expects a tensor for observations, please take a look at
`FlatObsWrapper` in
[gym_minigrid/wrappers.py](/gym_minigrid/wrappers.py).

The partially observable view of the environment uses a compact and efficient
encoding, with just 3 input values per visible grid cell, 147 values total.
If you want to obtain an array of RGB pixels instead, see the `getObsRender` method in
[gym_minigrid/minigrid.py](gym_minigrid/minigrid.py).

Structure of the world:
- The world is an NxM grid of tiles
- Each tile in the grid world contains zero or one object
  - Cells that do not contain an object have the value `None`
- Each object has an associated discrete color (string)
- Each object has an associated type (string)
  - Provided object types are: wall, door, locked_doors, key, ball, box and goal
- The agent can pick up and carry exactly one object (eg: ball or key)

Actions in the basic environment:
- Turn left
- Turn right
- Move forward
- Toggle (pick up or interact with objects)
- Wait (noop, do nothing)

By default, sparse rewards for reaching a goal square are provided, but you can
define your own reward function by creating a class derived from MiniGridEnv. Extending
the environment with new object types or action should be very easy very easy.
If you wish to do this, you should take a look at the
[gym_minigrid/minigrid.py](gym_minigrid/minigrid.py) source file.

## Included Environments

The environments listed below are implemented in the [gym_minigrid/envs](/gym_minigrid/envs) directory.
Each environment provides one or more configurations registered with OpenAI gym. Each environment
is also programmatically tunable in terms of size/complexity, which is useful for curriculum learning
or to fine-tune difficulty.

### Empty environment

Registered configurations:
- `MiniGrid-Empty-6x6-v0`
- `MiniGrid-Empty-8x8-v0`
- `MiniGrid-Empty-16x16-v0`

<p align="center">
<img src="/figures/empty-env.png" width=250>
</p>

This environment is an empty room, and the goal of the agent is to reach the
green goal square, which provides a sparse reward. A small penalty is
subtracted for the number of steps to reach the goal. This environment is
useful, with small rooms, to validate that your RL algorithm works correctly,
and with large rooms to experiment with sparse rewards.

### Door & key environment

Registered configurations:
- `MiniGrid-DoorKey-5x5-v0`
- `MiniGrid-DoorKey-6x6-v0`
- `MiniGrid-DoorKey-8x8-v0`
- `MiniGrid-DoorKey-16x16-v0`

<p align="center">
<img src="/figures/door-key-env.png">
</p>

This environment has a key that the agent must pick up in order to unlock
a goal and then get to the green goal square. This environment is difficult,
because of the sparse reward, to solve using classical RL algorithms. It is
useful to experiment with curiosity or curriculum learning.

### Multi-room environment

Registered configurations:
- `MiniGrid-MultiRoom-N2-S4-v0` (two small rooms)
- `MiniGrid-MultiRoom-N6-v0` (six room)

<p align="center">
<img src="/figures/multi-room.gif" width=416 height=424>
</p>

This environment has a series of connected rooms with doors that must be
opened in order to get to the next room. The final room has the green goal
square the agent must get to. This environment is extremely difficult to
solve using classical RL. However, by gradually increasing the number of
rooms and building a curriculum, the environment can be solved.

### Fetch environment

Registered configurations:
- `MiniGrid-Fetch-5x5-N2-v0`
- `MiniGrid-Fetch-6x6-N2-v0`
- `MiniGrid-Fetch-8x8-N3-v0`

<p align="center">
<img src="/figures/fetch-env.png" width=450>
</p>

This environment has multiple objects of assorted types and colors. The
agent receives a textual string as part of its observation telling it
which object to pick up. Picking up the wrong object produces a negative
reward.

### Go-to-door environment

Registered configurations:
- `MiniGrid-GoToDoor-5x5-v0`
- `MiniGrid-GoToDoor-6x6-v0`
- `MiniGrid-GoToDoor-8x8-v0`

<p align="center">
<img src="/figures/gotodoor-6x6.png" width=400>
</p>

This environment is a room with four doors, one on each wall. The agent
receives a textual (mission) string as input, telling it which door to go to,
(eg: "go to the red door"). It receives a positive reward for performing the
`wait` action next to the correct door, as indicated in the mission string.

### Put-near environment

Registered configurations:
- `MiniGrid-PutNear-6x6-N2-v0`
- `MiniGrid-PutNear-8x8-N3-v0`

The agent is instructed through a textual string to pick up an object and
place it next to another object. This environment is easy to solve with two
objects, but difficult to solve with more, as it involves both textual
understanding and spatial reasoning involving multiple objects.

### Locked Room Environment

Registed configurations:
- `MiniGrid-LockedRoom-v0`

The environment has six rooms, one of which is locked. The agent receives
a textual mission string as input, telling it which room to go to in order
to get the key that opens the locked room. It then has to go into the locked
room in order to reach the final goal. This environment is extremely difficult
to solve with vanilla reinforcement learning alone.

### Four room question answering environment

Registered configurations:
- `MiniGrid-FourRoomQA-v0`

<p align="center">
<img src="/figures/fourroomqa-env.png">
</p>

This environment is inspired by the
[Embodied Question Answering](https://arxiv.org/abs/1711.11543) paper. The question are of the form:

> Are there any keys in the red room?

There are four colored rooms, and the agent starts at a random position in the grid.
Multiple objects of different types and colors are also placed at random
positions in random rooms. A question and answer pair is generated, the
question is given to the agent as an observation, and the agent has a limited
number of time steps to explore the environment and produce a response. This
environment can be easily modified to add more question types or to diversify
the way the questions are phrased.
